ASKA_lookup_map.mat is an input for fastq2barcodeCounts_v3_1.m and contains all knockout strain barcodes and strain indentifier information.

backgroundSignal.mat holds background/autofluorescence of colonies on certain media at certain time points. These values are to be input to plot_colony_selfRecA.m to subtract from experimental values. Generated with plot_colonyBackground.m

barcodeAnalysis.R is a function (used in BarcodeScreen.R) that runs DESeq and pathway enrichment anaylsis on barcoded screen fastq files. DESeq is used to determine p-values and fold-change of knockout strains in control and treatment samples. Outputs include hits, volcano plots, and pathway enrichment. It relies on outputs from fastq2barcodeCounts_v3_1.m

BarcodeScreen.R is a wrapper script using the barcodeAnalysis.R function to analyze barcoded knockout strain screens. Different comparisons of treatment and control groups can be assigned in this script.

Breseq_mutation_list.xlsx is an example output from breseq that is an input to writeMasterMutationList.m

calcMutationTable_v2.m is a script that filters mutations by certain criteria and removes mutations shared by both treatment and control groups. The output is a .txt file with condition, mutation position, and mutation sequence context. Other outputs are fasta format files of mutation sequence context for both treatment and control, and a randomly generated control.

ctrl_context.txt is the randomly generated control fasta file from calcMutationTable_v2.m to be used in downstream analysis with fimo.

COG function Entrez GMT.csv is a file input to BarcodeScreen.R that contains COG pathways and the entrez ID for genes in those pathways.

comparison_pksP2pksN.csv is an example comparison file that can be input to BarcodeScreen.R

countsOddPlusEven.csv is an example barcoded knockout strain counts file generated by fastq2barcodeCounts_v3_1.m and is an input to BarcodeScreen.R

countTriNucs.m is a script that iterates through all possible trinucleotide sequences and identifies the frequency of each sequence in downloaded genomes. Information for each genome is saved in dataTable_Ecoli.mat

dataTable_Ecoli.mat is an input to countTriNucs.m and contains information on over 9,000 E. coli genomes, including accession numbers.

EcoCyc Pathways Entrez GMT.csv is a file input to BarcodeScreen.R that contains EcoCyc pathways and the entrez ID for genes in those pathways.

fastq2barcodeCounts_v3_1.m generates knockout barcode counts from fastq files. The script iterates over fastq files, removes reads with low quality scores, and searches each read for known barcodes (provided in ASKA_lookup_map.mat). Identified barcodes are summed and normalized to reads per million for each sample. 

fimo.xlsx is the output from a fimo analysis run on mutation sequence context files (i.e. ctrl_context.txt and pks+_context_5.txt). it is an input to findSeqwithMotif.m

findSeqwithMotif.m is a script that finds mutated sequences that match the enriched motif identified with fimo. fimo.xlsx and pks+_context_5.txt are inputs.

genomeFeatures.xlsx is a file containing positions of key genome features in E. coli such as the origin and terminus regions. It is an input to plotMutPositions.m

macrodomain_positions.xlsx is a file containing the end point positions of previously defined macrodomains. It is an input to plotMutPositions.m

master_mutation_final.xlsx is a file containing cleaned up breseq results and extra information such as sequence context and mutation type.

metadata_pksP2pksN.csv is an example metadata file to be input to BarcodeScreen.R to assign samples to control or treatment groups.

mutationContext_5.txt is a file containing conditions, mutation positions, and mutation sequence context. It serves as an input to plotMutPositions.m

mutationType.m is a script that extracts types of mutations (i.e. sbs, small/medium/large indels) and the frequency of each mutation.

pks+_context_5.txt is a fasta format file to be used in fimo and for downstream analysis identifying sequences that match the enriched motifs.

plot_colony_selfRecA.m is a script that uses the quant_selfRecASignal.m function to quantify YFP expression in colonies inflicting self-damage. Background fluorescence of untagged colonies is subtracted from both YFP and CFP channels and then YFP is divided by CFP to normalize to overall protein levels in each colony

plot_colonyBackground.m is a script that determines the background/autofluorescence of untagged colonies on different media agar plates over time for YFP and CFP. These values are saved in an output to be used in plot_colony_selfRecA.m 

plotMutPositions.m is a script that plots the genomic location of mutation positions on a circle plot and relative to macrodomains from macrodomain_positions.xlsx

quant_backgroundSignal.m is a function used by plot_colonyBackground.m that segments colonies and measures fluorescent signal intensity

quant_selfRecASignal.m is a function used by plot_colony_selfRecA.m to segment colonies and measure YFP fluorescence.

writeMasterMutationList.m is a script that takes a breseq output, cleans up some of the columns, and adds information like mutation type or sequence context.

yfp.mat is an example output file from the quant_selfRecASignal.m function used in plot_colony_selfRecA.m. The file can also be used as an input for the plotting portion of plot_colony_selfRecA
